





FIRST


During my 4 years in high school, I participated in a FIRST (link) robotics team (FRC) called the "Circuit Breakers". On this team I served as a programmer, problem solver, and a talented mechanic. In those years we went to world championships in St. Louis, Missouri twice. Being part of the team since it was founded and going all the way to championships twice was an amazing experience. Knowing I participated in making that victory possible along with my other teammates still puts a huge smile on my face.

Some of us have a funny habit of collecting all other team’s buttons we encounter. After 4 years I have amassed a collection of several hundred buttons. They not only show how many teams I have encountered but also how truly large of a program FIRST Robotics really is. Each button represents one whole team. One team usually has 20 - 30 high school students in it along with supportive parents and mentors. Each year every team must make a 120lb competition ready robot in just 6 weeks that is faced with a new challenge every time. My hundreds of buttons only include a very small part of California and a bit from world championships over a span of only 4 years out of the (years) years FIRST has been around. FIRST not only includes the high school Robotics Competition, but also the Tech Challenge (FTC), Lego League (FLL), and Jr. Lego League(Jr FLL). Funny enough FRC has the fewest number of teams across the globe. Most teams are in the United States but FIRST also spans the entire world. I got to shake hands with teams from Beijing, Iraq, Africa, China, Japan, South America, France and more. Being part of the Circuit Breakers from the very beginning has been by far the best experience of my life with other people.

On this team I learned how to use power tools, program robots, build robots, manage other people, inspire other teams and more. I got to meet with aerospace engineers, software engineers, and mechanical engineers in person! How cool is that? While each of them wanted to help us build the robot super badly, they could only serve as mentors. I now understand their pain because now that I am no longer in high school I am also a mentor. All I can do is help a little where I can because I am no longer a student that can build the robot. I really miss building the robot with my team, but it is time to move on to larger projects and find new teams in college and beyond. I still do visit my team occasionally to see how they are doing and help them when I can.








